Upgrade Guide 2.0 (#701)
RevealBi/Documentation: docs/web/upgrade-guide-v2.0.0.md

## Overview of Breaking Changes

- **jQuery and Day.js removed** — the SDK no longer depends on jQuery or Day.js.
- **NPM delivery** — the client SDK is now delivered as an npm package. Legacy script-tag delivery is no longer the recommended approach.
- **`$.ig` and `RevealApi` namespaces removed** — all types are now imported directly from the `reveal-sdk` npm package. Replace `$.ig.ClassName` and `RevealApi.ClassName` with direct imports (e.g. `import { ClassName } from "reveal-sdk"`).
- **Renamed and removed APIs** 

>     - `DateFilter` - _removed_ deprecated property from `RevealView`, `RVDashboard`, `RVDateDashboardFilter`, `RevealSettings`, `IExportOptions` and and classes implementing it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `DateFilter` - _removed_ deprecated property from `RevealView`, `RVDashboard`, `RVDateDashboardFilter`, `RevealSettings`, `IExportOptions` and classes implementing it.
```

>     - `DateFilter` - _removed_ deprecated property from `RevealView`, `RVDashboard`, `RVDateDashboardFilter`, `IExportOptions`, `RevealSettings`, `ExportOptionsBase` and child classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `DateFilter` - _removed_ deprecated property from `RevealView`, `RVDashboard`, `RVDateDashboardFilter`, `RevealSettings`, `IExportOptions` and and classes implementing it.
```

    - `Reveal.Sdk.Dashboard.ToJsonStringAsync` - _renamed_ to `ToJsonString`.

> - **Deprecated types** — `RVDashboardThumbnailView` has been deprecated, in favor of `RVThumbnail`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Deprecated types** — `RVDashboardThumbnailView` has been _deprecated_, in favor of `RVThumbnail`.
```

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.infragistics.reveal.sdk</groupId>
    <artifactId>reveal-sdk</artifactId>
    <version>2.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="node" label="Node.js">

```bash
npm install reveal-sdk-node@2.0.0
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### 4. Update API usage

#### `$.ig` / `RevealApi` → Direct imports

The `$.ig` and `RevealApi` global namespaces have been removed. All types are now imported directly from the `reveal-sdk` npm package. If you were using TypeScript with `infragistics.reveal.d.ts` for IntelliSense (e.g. `new $.ig.RevealView`), update all references to use direct imports instead.

<Tabs groupId="api-namespace">
  <TabItem value="before" label="1.x">

```javascript
$.ig.RevealSdkSettings.setBaseUrl("https://localhost:5111/");
var revealView = new $.ig.RevealView("#revealView");
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="after" label="2.0">

```typescript
import { RevealSdkSettings, RevealView } from "reveal-sdk";

RevealSdkSettings.setBaseUrl("https://localhost:5111/");
const revealView = new RevealView("#revealView");
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### `DateFilter` → `filters` + `RVDateRule`

> The deprecated `DateFilter` property has been removed. Use the `filters` collection instead.  DateFilter was eliminated from `RevealView`, `RVDashboard`, `RVDateDashboardFilter`, `RevealSettings`, `IExportOptions` and and classes implementing it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deprecated `DateFilter` property has been removed. Use the `filters` collection instead.  DateFilter was eliminated from `RevealView`, `RVDashboard`, `RVDateDashboardFilter`, `RevealSettings`, `IExportOptions` and classes implementing it.
```

> The deprecated `DateFilter` property has been removed. Use the `filters` collection instead.  DateFilter was eliminated from `RevealView`, `RVDashboard`, `RVDateDashboardFilter`, `IExportOptions`, `RevealSettings`, `ExportOptionsBase` and child classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deprecated `DateFilter` property has been removed. Use the `filters` collection instead.  DateFilter was eliminated from `RevealView`, `RVDashboard`, `RVDateDashboardFilter`, `RevealSettings`, `IExportOptions` and and classes implementing it.
```

<Tabs groupId="api-datefilter">
  <TabItem value="before" label="1.x">

```javascript
var myRule = new $.ig.RVDateRule($.ig.RVPeriodRelation.Last, 3, $.ig.RVPeriodType.Month);
dashboard.dateFilter = new $.ig.RVDateDashboardFilter(myRule);
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="after" label="2.0">

```typescript
import { RVDateRule, RVPeriodRelation, RVPeriodType } from "reveal-sdk";

const myRule = new RVDateRule(RVPeriodRelation.Last, 3, RVPeriodType.Month);
const myDateFilter = dashboard.filters.findByTitle("My Date Filter");
myDateFilter.rule = myRule;
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### `RVDashboardThumbnailView` → `RVThumbnail`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Usage of `RVDashboardThumbnailView` is being deprecated. The class will continue to be available for some time, but we recommend that you migrate your code to use `RVThumbnail` instead.

```

## Overview of Breaking Changes

- **jQuery and Day.js removed** — the SDK no longer depends on jQuery or Day.js.

> - **NPM delivery** — the client SDK is now delivered as an npm package; legacy script-tag delivery is no longer the recommended approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **NPM delivery** — the client SDK is now delivered as an npm package. Legacy script-tag delivery is no longer the recommended approach.
```

- **`$.ig` and `RevealApi` namespaces removed** — all types are now imported directly from the `reveal-sdk` npm package. Replace `$.ig.ClassName` and `RevealApi.ClassName` with direct imports (e.g. `import { ClassName } from "reveal-sdk"`).
- **Renamed and removed APIs** 

>     - `DateFilter` - _removed_ deprecated property from `RevealView`, `RVDashboard` and `ExportOptionsBase`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `DateFilter` - _removed_ deprecated property from `RevealView`, `RVDashboard`, `RVDateDashboardFilter`, `IExportOptions`, `RevealSettings`, `ExportOptionsBase` and child classes.
```

    - `Reveal.Sdk.Dashboard.ToJsonStringAsync` - _renamed_ to `ToJsonString`.
- **Deprecated types** — `RVDashboardThumbnailView` has been deprecated, in favor of `RVThumbnail`.

## Step-by-Step Upgrade

### 1. Remove jQuery

> The Reveal SDK no longer requires jQuery. Remove the jQuery script tag that was loaded for the SDK:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Reveal SDK no longer requires jQuery. Remove the jQuery script tag that was previously required by the SDK:
```

<script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/spectrum/1.8.0/spectrum.min.js"></script>
<link href="https://cdn.quilljs.com/1.3.6/quill.snow.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" >
<script src="https://cdn.quilljs.com/1.3.6/quill.min.js"></script>
<script src="https://unpkg.com/dayjs@1.8.21/dayjs.min.js"></script>
```

### 2. Switch client SDK to NPM

Replace the legacy script-tag installation with the npm package.

<Tabs groupId="delivery">
  <TabItem value="before" label="1.x (script tags)">

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/jquery@3.6.0/dist/jquery.min.js"></script>
<script src="https://unpkg.com/dayjs@1.8.21/dayjs.min.js"></script>
<script src="https://dl.revealbi.io/reveal/libs/1.8.4/infragistics.reveal.js"></script>
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="after" label="2.0 (npm)">

```bash
npm install reveal-sdk
```

```typescript
import { RevealSdkSettings, RevealView } from "reveal-sdk";
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::tip Still need script tags?
The SDK distribution zip is still available for non-bundler setups — jQuery and Day.js are no longer needed:

```html
<script src="./assets/reveal/reveal-sdk.js"></script>
```
:::

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  thumbnailView.dashboardInfo = info.info;
});
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="after" label="2.0">

```typescript
import { RVThumbnail } from "reveal-sdk";

RVThumbnail.fromDashboard("#thumbnail", "Sales");
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

The new `RVThumbnail` API also supports runtime theme changes.

## Removed APIs

| API | Replacement |
|---|---|
| `$.ig` namespace | Direct imports from `reveal-sdk` |
| `RevealApi` namespace | Direct imports from `reveal-sdk` |
| `DateFilter` property | `filters` collection |
| `RVDashboardThumbnailView` | `RVThumbnail` |
| `Reveal.Sdk.Dashboard.ToJsonStringAsync` | `ToJsonString` |
| Legacy chart types (previously deprecated) | Use current [Chart Types](/web/chart-types) |
| Legacy Java engine | Java SDK (Spring Boot) |

## Summary Checklist

- [ ] Remove jQuery `<script>` tag
- [ ] Remove Quill.js and Spectrum.js references if still present
- [ ] Switch client SDK to npm package (or remove jQuery from script-tag setup)
- [ ] Update server SDK packages to 2.0.0
- [ ] Replace `$.ig.` and `RevealApi.` with direct imports from `reveal-sdk` in all client code
- [ ] Replace uses of `DateFilter` property to use `Filters` list instead.

> - [ ] Replace `RVDashboardThumbnailView` with `RVThumbnail`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] (recommended) Replace `RVDashboardThumbnailView` with `RVThumbnail`
```
